README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="app/src/main/res/drawable/ic_logo.png" width="128" height="128" />
</p>

# NetPulse

**NetPulse** is a powerful, modern, and high-performance network diagnostic and discovery application for Android. Built with a focus on high-end aesthetics and detailed technical insights, it provides everything you need to understand and troubleshoot your network.

## ✨ Features

- **📊 Network Dashboard:** Real-time monitoring of Wi-Fi signal strength, latency, and packet loss with dynamic live graphing.
- **🗺️ Interactive Device Mapping:** A visual representation of your subnet showing connected nodes. Tap any node to see deep technical details.
- **🔍 Advanced Device Discovery:** Goes beyond IP addresses. Identifies device types (Smartphone, Router, PC, IoT), manufacturers, MAC addresses, and hostnames.
- **🔍 Network Quality Diagnosis:** Comprehensive testing of jitter, latency, and DNS health with advanced scoring and history tracking.
- **📤 Smart Report Export:** Export single or multiple diagnostic results to formatted text files for external analysis.
- **🛡️ Comprehensive Port Scanner:**
  - **Single Port Check:** Quickly verify common services.
  - **Full Port Scan (1-65535):** Scan the entire range in parallel batches for extreme speed, with real-time service discovery.
- **🛠️ Professional Network Tools:**
  - **Ping:** Measure round-trip time with a terminal-style output.
  - **DNS Lookup:** Resolve hostnames and view detailed record information.
  - **Traceroute:** Trace the path to any host to identify network bottlenecks.
- **🚀 Speed Test:** Test your download and upload speeds with a premium, animated interface.
- **🌗 Theme Support:** Full support for Light and Dark modes with a sleek, minimalist design.
- **🌐 Multilingual:** Available in English and Spanish.

## 🛠️ Technical Stack

- **UI:** 100% Jetpack Compose for a reactive and fluid experience.
- **Concurrency:** Kotlin Coroutines & Flow for performant, non-blocking network operations.
- **Architecture:** MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel) pattern for clean and maintainable code.
- **Networking:** Native Android Sockets and InetAddress for low-level control.

## 📦 Installation

*(Update once published or provided as APK)*
1. Clone the repository.
2. Open with Android Studio (Ladybug or newer).
3. Build and run on an Android device (API 28+).

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---
*Developed by tinaut1986*

Commit message:

feat: release v1.3.0 with professional network tools and persistence
- Upgrade network diagnostics to use native ICMP for accurate latency/jitter.
- Split professional tools into independent terminal sessions (Ping, DNS, WHOIS, Traceroute).
- Implement persistent host/IP storage to remember last used targets.
- Enhance Speed Test with dedicated Latency and Jitter measurement phases.
- Add subtle version display in Settings screen.
- Remove redundant public IP cards from individual tool screens.
- Update documentation and increment version to 1.3.0.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="app/src/main/res/drawable/ic_logo.png" width="128" height="128" />
</p>

# NetPulse

**NetPulse** is a powerful, modern, and high-performance network diagnostic and discovery application for Android. Built with a focus on high-end aesthetics and detailed technical insights, it provides everything you need to understand and troubleshoot your network.

## ✨ Features

- **📊 Network Dashboard:** Real-time monitoring of Wi-Fi signal strength, latency, and packet loss with dynamic live graphing.
- **🗺️ Interactive Device Mapping:** A visual representation of your subnet showing connected nodes. Tap any node to see deep technical details.
- **🔍 Advanced Device Discovery:** Goes beyond IP addresses. Identifies device types (Smartphone, Router, PC, IoT), manufacturers, MAC addresses, and hostnames.
- **🔍 Network Quality Diagnosis:** Comprehensive testing of jitter and latency using native ICMP for high accuracy, with scoring and history tracking.
- **📤 Smart Report Export:** Export diagnostic results to formatted text files.
- **🛠️ Professional Network Tools:**
  - **Ping & Traceroute:** Measure round-trip time and path with professional, independent terminal sessions.
  - **WHOIS Lookup:** Resolve domain registration details with smart subdomain detection.
  - **DNS & Port Scanner:** Parallel scanning of all 65535 ports with service identification.
- **🚀 Enhanced Speed Test:** Animated interface for Download, Upload, and specialized Latency/Jitter testing.
- **🌗 Theme Support:** Full support for Light and Dark modes.
- **🌐 Multilingual:** Available in English and Spanish.

## 🛠️ Technical Stack

- **UI:** 100% Jetpack Compose for a reactive and fluid experience.
- **Concurrency:** Kotlin Coroutines & Flow for performant, non-blocking network operations.
- **Architecture:** MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel) pattern for clean and maintainable code.
- **Networking:** Native Android Sockets and InetAddress for low-level control.

## 📦 Installation

*(Update once published or provided as APK)*
1. Clone the repository.
2. Open with Android Studio (Ladybug or newer).
3. Build and run on an Android device (API 28+).

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---
*Developed by tinaut1986*
